# Reference Design

Source: https://rules.ectf.mitre.org/2026/system/reference_design.html

# Reference Design[¶](#reference-design "Permalink to this heading")

The eCTF 2026 reference design is provided to give teams a starting
example that meets all of the [Functional Requirements](../specs/functional_reqs.html). This design does
not implement **any** security, and as such does not meet any of the
[Security Requirements](../specs/security_reqs.html).

You can find the 2026 reference design at
<https://github.com/ectfmitre/2026-ectf-insecure-example/>

## Build Environment Implementation[¶](#build-environment-implementation "Permalink to this heading")

During the [Build Environment](../specs/functional_reqs.html#build-environment) step, the reference design installs the
dependencies required for building and interacting with the design utilizing
[Docker](../getting_started/docker.html).

The **HSM Image** will be built inside a docker container, as described in
[Functional Requirements](../specs/functional_reqs.html). **Global Secrets**
will be generated by the `design` python file (`gen_secrets.py`).

By default, the **HSM Image** installs:

* python3
* make
* git
* wget
* unzip
* MSPM0 SDK
* TI-Clang

These dependencies will act as a good starting point for your team to implement
your design, but may not be sufficient on their own. Get to know the tools to
add dependencies to the Docker Containers while building your design.

Tip

If you need to customize the environment and are running into problems
with Docker, `#tech-support` on [Zulip](../../about/zulip.html) is a
great place to find support

## Build Deployment Implementation[¶](#build-deployment-implementation "Permalink to this heading")

The reference design does not implement any security. As such, no real Global
Secret generation happens during the [Build Deployment](../specs/functional_reqs.html#build-deployment) phase of the
reference design.

The reference design does show how to implement Global Secret generation through
the `gen_secrets.py` present in the design directory. [Hardware Security Module (HSM)](index.html#hsm).

## Reference Design Utility Libraries[¶](#reference-design-utility-libraries "Permalink to this heading")

The Reference Design implements a set of utility libraries to help your design.
They wrap around more complicated, low-level hardware and software interfaces to
provide a simple interface to more complicated underlying behaviors. **We highly
recommend teams that are new to the eCTF start by using these high-level
libraries.**

Warning

These libraries are provided to provide an easy way to handle common
functionality. However as with the rest of the Reference Design, they
provide no security guarantees.

### Host Messaging Library[¶](#host-messaging-library "Permalink to this heading")

Host messaging is a high-level library that handles formatting messages between
the HSM and the host tools. More information on the structure of these messages is
available in [Host Interface](../specs/host_interface.html#host-interface).

Utilizing the host messaging library is a simple way to ensure that all messages
are formatted correctly.

The Host Messaging interface and implementation can be found in
`inc/host_messaging.h` and `src/host_messaging.c` in the
`firmware/` directory of the Reference design.

### Simple UART Library[¶](#simple-uart-library "Permalink to this heading")

The simple UART library creates a high-level library for interfacing with the
console UART peripheral present on the MSPM0L2228. This interface allows you
to read and write to both the Console UART (UART0) and UART1, which allows boards
to interface with each other. Two globals are defined to support this communication:
`CONTROL_INTERFACE` (UART0) and `TRANSFER_INTERFACE` (UART1), and one must be passed to
each simple UART function to determine on which interface to communicate.

The Simple UART interface and implementation can be found in the `inc/simple_uart.h`
and `src/simple_uart.c` files in the `firmware/` directory of the reference design.

### Simple Flash Library[¶](#simple-flash-library "Permalink to this heading")

The simple flash library creates a high-level library for interfacing with the
flash memory present on the TI MSP-LITO-L2228 board. This interfaces allows you to read,
write, and erase flash memory.

[Flash Memory](../../glossary.html#term-Flash-Memory) does not work in the same fashion as RAM that you may be
used to working with. Flash memory can only be written in one direction (e.g.,
1 to 0). As such, in order to rewrite the same location in flash memory, the
memory must be erased (resetting the memory to all 1s). Flash is erased in bulk
units called erase blocks. For the MSPM0L2228 platform, Flash can be erased in 1KB
sectors.

The Simple Flash interface and implementation can be found in
`inc/simple_flash.h` and `src/simple_flash.c` in the `firmware/` directory
of the Reference design.

Note

[Flash Memory](../../glossary.html#term-Flash-Memory) does not work like most memory you are probably used
to working with, so make sure you use the Simple Flash Library to interact
with it.

### Simple Crypto Library[¶](#simple-crypto-library "Permalink to this heading")

The simple crypto interface creates a high-level library for performing
cryptographic operations through WolfSSL. This interface provided a hash
operation, and symmetric encryption capabilities. **We highly recommend that
teams new to the eCTF start by only using the Simple Crypto Library until they
have a working design.** You may choose to use other algorithms and make a more
complicated protocol after (you may call directly into the WolfSSL library like
the Simple Crypto Library does), but teams new to the eCTF frequently start with
overly ambitious designs and run out of time to implement them.

Tip

A team that makes reasonable tradeoffs of security and simplicity to make
it into the Attack Phase will do far better and have a much better
experience than a team who gets caught up with perfection and runs out of
time to finish, so start simple and work from there if you have time.

